---
layout: post
title: Money
date: 2023-06-28 11:23 +0100
math: true
---

Money for iOS is an app for keeping track of transactions, balances, payments, budgets and more.

> Images showcasing the apps features will be added soon
{: .prompt-info }

## Transactions

{% include image-gallery.html folder="/assets/tabs/money/transactions" %}

The transactions tab allows you to view and modify transactions. Entering the details page for a transaction allows you to enter the following details: 

- Name
- Date
- Price
- Category
- Account
- Notes

It also gives you the option to split a transaction, mark a transaction as [lent](#borrowed), and mark a transaction as repeating. Transactions can be filtered by any of the details in the list above.

### Future Transactions

The tab shows a preview of all upcoming transactions, which can include: 
- Repeat transactions
- Account [payments](#payments)
- Account [interest](#interest)
- [Payday](#payday-preview) 

#### Repeat Transactions

Transactions can be set to repeat at an interval of $n$ months. The next due date of a transaction can be set and every $n$ months on the specified day, a new transaction will be created and the balance of the linked account will be adjusted 

## Accounts

{% include image-gallery.html folder="/assets/tabs/money/accounts" %}

The accounts tab allows you to keep track of account balances, payments, interest and more. The following details can be added to an account:
- Name
- Balance
- Credit Limit
- Payment date & amount
- Interest rate & statement date

### Borrowed

Marking an account as borrowed indicates that the account represents money owed to / from a friend. Enabling this option causes the account to show in the picker for selecting the lent account.

### Payments

Setting up a payment for an account enables it to be displayed in the Transactions tab as a [future transaction](#future-transactions) so you can see a summary of all money coming into and leaving your accounts. The preview shows the payment amount, date, and a countdown to the date so you keep on top of payments. Having a payment configured also allows you to quickly mark the payment as completed, adjusting the stored balance for the source and destination accounts chosen. Finally, if the balance on the account is not enough to cover any transactions scheduled before the payment date, then a prompt showing the total scheduled amount and deficit is shown at the top of the page.

Setting up a payment also enables the display showing the estimated time to pay off the account balance. 

### Interest

Setting up interest for an account enables the interest payment to be shown in the Transactions tab as a [future transaction](#future-transactions). An estimate of the interest incurred for the month will be shown in the account's details page as well as in the preview. This also modifies the estimated time to pay by including the interest paid on the balance, and shows the total interest paid below the payoff date.

## Categories

{% include image-gallery.html folder="/assets/tabs/money/categories" %}

The categories tab allows you to create and modify categories, to be used for classifying transactions, and to set per-category budgets. The details page for a category allows you to set the: 
- name
- symbol - a SF symbol to be displayed in the previews of transactions using the category
- colour - the colour to use for the symbol 

Finally, it allows you to create and manage a budget for the category.

### Budgets

The budget section allows you to enter a budget amount and a timeframe, $x$. The budgets work on a rolling basis where the total spent is the sum of prices of transactions using the category within the last $x$ days. The budget preview shows the total spent as a fraction of the allowed balance, and the number of days until the budget has available balance. The background of the preview is filled proportionately to the percentage of the budget which is used up and is coloured accordingly. 

## Work

{% include image-gallery.html folder="/assets/tabs/money/work" %}

The work tab allows you to log shifts and see an estimate of how much you will be paid. The tab contains a text field to enter your wage, a date picker for the next payday, and pickers for two date ranges. The display range determines which shifts will be shown in the list, and the pay range is used to calculate the pay. 

In the details page for a shift you can change the date as well as the start & end times of the shift. It shows the length of the shift in hours and the estimated pay.

### Payday Preview

The payday preview is shown on the [transactions tab](#future-transactions) and shows the date of the next payday as well as the estimated pay of the shifts in the pay range. 

Click [here](/projects/money) for more details.

> There is not yet a planned release date
{: .prompt-info }